hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact books today we're reviewing a
beast of a book written by a beast of an
author it's called tools of Titans and
it was written by multiple time
best-selling author and impact Theory
guest a Mr Tim
[Music]
Ferris all right this one was published
by hotton Mifflin Harcourt and as of now
there's no audio version so I actually
had to grab a physical cop of this bad
boy and dive in as somebody who almost
never reads physical books I have to say
I actually really enjoyed the experience
even though it slowed me down a bit this
book was Tim's attempt to distill the
best of the best Knowledge from his
phenomenal podcast the Tim Farah show
and if you haven't watched that guys
check it out and this book reads like
the cliff notes to success as Tim calls
it it's a buffet you get to select as
much of any one thing as you want to
indulge in and you're free at any time
to skip around which really makes the
reading exper experience uh super
Dynamic feels a bit like a Choose Your
Own Adventure it was a lot of fun and
that also added to having it physically
in your hand cuz it's a lot easier to
jump around skim see what you want to
dive deeper into to make it easy this
book is broken into three main parts
healthy wealthy and wise and it's
further broken down into what feel like
letters from wildly successful old
friends no section is too long but every
section is packed with highly usable
insights that will expand solidify and
or challenge your own worldview until
you come out the other side a better and
more capable version of yourself which
is always what I'm looking for in
books impactful takeaway number one
comes from legendary investor Chris Saka
if you're starting out go to as many
high Lev meetings as possible find a way
to add value so that they'll let you
stay when he was at Google Chris really
took this to the extreme and he would
show up to all kinds of meetings that he
wasn't invited to even ones with the
founders and if people question him he
would just say that he was already to
take notes for them and his goal was to
find a way to add value and that concept
for me is one of the most powerful
takeaways in life if you're trying to
climb up and certainly in this book and
it's shocking to me just how far you can
get if you're looking for ways to
deliver value to other people it's an
awesome way to go from wherever you are
to where you're trying to get to because
people are always looking for others
that can help them in their journey and
then the reciprocation factor kicks in
and they'll want to help you back but
even if they don't if you're putting
yourself around people that know things
that you don't you'll be able to soak it
up learn like a sponge and it's going to
be that knowledge ultimately that moves
you forward this has always been a key
part of my strategy and it was certainly
the thing that I leveraged back when I
had very little to add in business
meetings I saw it as my job to be The
Keeper of the universe of ideas that
have been thrown out and then be the
energy behind things to remind people to
return to it that we should be focusing
on it and that kept me at the Forefront
of people's mind it got me invited to
meet meetings and it got me the ability
to just keep learning learning learning
and at the end of the day that's what
it's all
about key takeaway number two stress
test ideas with a red team this one
comes from Mark andrees also a legendary
investor who has just had a smash run in
Silicon Valley your big fear should be
Dogma it should be believing that you
know beyond a shadow of a doubt what
you're doing once you feel like that you
should begin to question everything in
your mind because if you're not actively
exploring the absolute opposite point of
view you're missing an opportunity to
either kill an idea before you waste
time on it or even if it's a great idea
just to sharpen that idea by exploring
its opposite this is something that
really will serve you in all areas of
your decision-making as it's going to
force you to look at the problem from
both the solution side and the opposing
side and if we have any parents watching
guys I highly encourage you to nudge
your kids ever so gently in the
direction of doing debate in high school
at least when I was in high school they
forced you to argue both sides of the
debate and I'm sure that's the way that
it is still and doing that really trains
you to be intellectually flexible which
is so important and capable of taking
different point of views and it really
is this that I think refutes the old
adage that genius is a young man's game
and the reason I think that people think
of Genius as being a young man's game is
because the older you get the more
certain you become the more your ideas
calcify in Dogma the less intellectually
flexible you become and you're just not
open to new ideas you don't see New
Paths you don't make unique connections
so not letting that happen and really
creating a red team blue team where
you're actively giving people the job to
challenge an idea before you move
forward with it that is a critical
breakthrough for any
[Music]
entrepreneur takeaway number three use
your perceived flaws as an asset this
comes from my boy Arnold Schwarzenegger
and he didn't break into Hollywood by
trying to be like everyone else he broke
into Hollywood by being
unapologetically even aggressively
himself he refused to change his name or
even audition think of that one of the
biggest stars on the planet ever and he
refused to audition he wanted instead to
create a niche that only he could feel
he said there were all these pretty boys
trying to be cute the blonde California
Surfer type and he wanted to come in and
be something totally unique that nobody
else could deliver on and that's exactly
what he did ignoring the naysayers all
along the way and that my friends is the
key to this strategy if you're going to
be yourself with all of your weird
idiosyncrasies and unique flavor you
have to be willing to stare down the
people who doubt you you have to be
willing to ignore the people who can
only believe that which they've already
seen before it's powerful advice if
you've got the courage to follow it
because then you're able to create
something unique and that is what
captures people's imagination and in
this game especially now in today's
hypers social Ultra connected World
you've got to find a way to cut through
the noise and being you is just about
the only way to do it and bonus points
to anyone who can listen to the market
and yet ignore the naysayers that's not
easy but it's exactly the key to success
and what I mean by that is you have to
be willing to take feedback if the
market is telling you that they're not
looking for you as you're presenting
yourself you have to be willing to
change and adapt but at the same time
you have to find something that is
unique and still authentic to you all
the while ignoring the people who say
that you're going to fail because if as
you first come out the gate and it's not
working and you let your mindset crumble
to the naysayers you're in trouble so
listen to the market ignore the
naysayers the hardest part of doing
these reviews is breaking the book down
into the three most impactful quotes
especially in this book which is just
literally page after page after page of
quotes he's interviewed so many people
for this book and so many of them have
incredibly unique and Powerful takeaways
but here are the three that I boiled it
down
to number number one is that a dream or
a goal because there's a difference
Triple H A I love that this quote comes
from Triple H and B it's incredibly
powerful to learn the difference between
a dream which is something you fantasize
about but almost certainly won't come
true and a goal which while it may be
hard is something that you work towards
every day until you ultimately
accomplish it and knowing the difference
between the two is absolutely critical
and will determine whether you go to
accomplish the things that you want in
life or whether you just sit there and
fantasize about it all right impactful
quote number two even when everything is
going terribly and I have no reason to
be confident I just decide to be Derek
cers I love this quote it's it's a
cousin to the fake it tell you make it
but what I like more about this one is
that he's pointing out that even
confidence ultimately comes down to a
choice confidence is brain chemistry and
if you can learn to create that sense in
your mind to actually feel confidence
then even when things are going wrong
you're going to be able to reenter
yourself and keep going hard in a
Direction with enough belief and
conviction to pull it off and that my
friends is critical because if you don't
have that everything that you do will
have that sense of une at the edges and
you won't be able to get people excited
and to Rally behind your idea impactful
quote number three it's not what you
know it's what you do consistently Tim
Ferris this is such a critical thing to
really grow and understand understand it
doesn't matter if you collect all the
knowledge in the world if you're not on
a daytoday basis putting it into
practice at the end of the day you're an
amalgamation of all the habits that you
have that's it and you should be looking
at forming habits that move you towards
your goals in fact one of the most
critical things for anybody who's trying
to accomplish something in their life is
to identify where they're trying to go
and what the daily habits and routines
are that are going to get them the
skills that they need in order to get
where they want to go and that my
friends is all that matters it's where
the rubber meets the
road as always there are a million
amazing quotes and ideas in this book
that I haven't been able to touch on
here so be sure to go to impact
theory.com for more quotes and all kinds
of supplemental material around this we
also did an interview with Tim for
impact theory on this book so be sure to
watch that whole episode to go a lot
deeper into this subject matter all
right now my favorite part of the
reviews how I plan to use this book in
my life I see this book as a field
reference guide its applications
literally are endless it's crazy
regardless of the problem that you guys
are facing this book is going to have a
powerful Insight of some kind a quote or
something that's going to pop and really
give you what you need to have that
breakthrough or to keep going or just
know that you're not alone so whether
you need a jolt of inspiration or a
reminder that your craziness is a
craziness that is probably shared by a
lot of people and a lot of people that
have had tremendous success keeping this
book near you at all times is is going
to be your best friend in that fight it
is highly insightful and just chocka
block with unimaginably detailed tactics
and that's something that Tim is really
famous for is the tactics he breaks
things down all the way to a pure
executional level I'm talking even down
to how many milligrams of a given
substance you should try for optimal
results which he goes into a lot in the
healthy section so this book isn't just
um light Fair it isn't highle
inspiration he's got that stuff but he
takes you really deep into the pure
tactical and that is really what makes
Tim Tim so it's found in Spades in this
book all right I'm going to be going to
this book over and over again its width
and depth are positively delicious I
highly recommend you have a copy of this
book in every room of your house you
never know when you're most going to
need it Sage advice all right guys as
always I want to leave you with one
final quote the opposite of play isn't
work it's all right for the rest of that
quote you're going to have to read the
Jane mical section of this book and
trust me you're going to want to hear
how she finishes that sentence all right
guys this is a weekly show so if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take
care